Turbostat (#16870)
influxdata/telegraf: plugins/inputs/turbostat/README.md

# Turbostat Input Plugin

This plugin monitors system performance using `turbostat`.

⭐ Telegraf v1.35.0
🏷️ server,system
💻 linux

## Prerequisites

Install `turbostat`.

Allow the Telegraf user to run `turbostat`. Assuming the Telegraf user is
`telegraf` and `turbostat` is installed in `/usr/bin`, add the following line
to `/etc/sudoers.d/telegraf`.

```text
telegraf ALL=(root) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/turbostat

> ```

Author: Done in https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf/pull/17368.

## Service Input <!-- @/docs/includes/service_input.md -->

This plugin is a service input. Normal plugins gather metrics determined by the

> interval setting. Service plugins start a service to listens and waits for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interval setting. Service plugins start a service to listen and wait for
```

Author: Done, thanks.

Author: Please see https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf/pull/16984/files :pray:

[CONFIGURATION.md]: ../../../docs/CONFIGURATION.md#plugins

## Configuration

```toml
[[inputs.turbostat]]
  command = ["sudo", "turbostat", "--quiet", "--interval", "10", "--show", "all"]
```

Some Turbostat configuration options are particularly relevant for this plugin.

- `-i`, `--interval`: Overrides the default 5s collection interval. This plugin
is a service input plugin: it ignores the Telegraf global and plugin-specific
collection intervals. The interval should be configured in Turbostat instead.
- `-S`, `--summary`: Limits the output to a one-line system summary per
collection interval.
- `-s`, `--show`: Show only the specified columns. May be invoked multiple
times, or with a comma-separated list of column names.
- `-H`, `--hide`: Do not show the specified columns. May be invoked multiple
times, or with a comma-separated list of column names. Be careful not to hide
CPU, Core, Package, and Die, or the output may lose much of its meaning.

To discover the list of available columns, run `sudo tubostat --list`.

For further information, run `man turbostat`. If the man page is not installed,
you can obtain `tools/power/x86/turbostat/turbostat.8` from the

> [Linux kernel repository](https://github.com/torvalds/linux) and browse it with

Reviewer: Maybe it would be easier for user if they got a direct download link right away?
https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/master/tools/power/x86/turbostat/turbostat.8

Author: That's what I initially went for, but I could not get the Markdown linter to stop complaining about excessive line length. Do you know how to do?

Reviewer: In my opinion, the linter should be configured not to check the length of the URL.
@srebhan @skartikey @mstrandboge Can you help with this?

Author: A reference-style link solves this.

# Turbostat Input Plugin

This plugin monitors system performance using `turbostat`.

⭐ Telegraf v1.35.0
🏷️ server,system
💻 linux

## Prerequisites

Install `turbostat`.

Allow the Telegraf user to run `turbostat`. Assuming the Telegraf user is
`telegraf` and `turbostat` is installed in `/usr/bin`, add the following line
to `/etc/sudoers.d/telegraf`.

```text
telegraf ALL=(root) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/turbostat
```

## Global configuration options <!-- @/docs/includes/plugin_config.md -->

In addition to the plugin-specific configuration settings, plugins support
additional global and plugin configuration settings. These settings are used to
modify metrics, tags, and field or create aliases and configure ordering, etc.
See the [CONFIGURATION.md][CONFIGURATION.md] for more details.

[CONFIGURATION.md]: ../../../docs/CONFIGURATION.md#plugins

## Configuration

```toml
[[inputs.turbostat]]
  command = ["sudo", "turbostat", "--quiet", "--interval", "10"]

> ```

Author: Not done yet.

## Metrics

The exact metrics depend on the version of Turbostat, the system on which it
runs, and the command line parameters.

## Example Output

```text
turbostat,core=-,cpu=-,host=desktop busy_percent=1.43,bzy_mhz=3356,corwatt=1.24,pkgwatt=25.44
turbostat,core=0,cpu=0,host=desktop busy_percent=1.26,bzy_mhz=3031,corwatt=0.14,pkgwatt=25.44
turbostat,core=0,cpu=4,host=desktop busy_percent=0.54,bzy_mhz=3260
turbostat,core=1,cpu=1,host=desktop busy_percent=3.85,bzy_mhz=3458,corwatt=0.25
turbostat,core=1,cpu=5,host=desktop busy_percent=1.6,bzy_mhz=3856
turbostat,core=2,cpu=2,host=desktop busy_percent=1.56,bzy_mhz=3171,corwatt=0.12
turbostat,core=2,cpu=6,host=desktop busy_percent=0.64,bzy_mhz=3326
turbostat,core=3,cpu=3,host=desktop busy_percent=3.54,bzy_mhz=3430,corwatt=0.26
turbostat,core=3,cpu=7,host=desktop busy_percent=2.05,bzy_mhz=3722

> ```

Author: Not done yet.

> ```

Author: Done, both for the doc and test data.
